.TH SCPF 1 "Thu Jul 13 15:21:14 UTC 2017" "scpf 2.0.4~dev4"
.SH NAME
scpf - general push service provider written in Erlang.
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\f[C]scpf\f[] [\f[I]command\f[]]
.SH Description
.PP
scpf is a general push service provider written in Erlang.
.SH Examples
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ start\f[]
Starts \f[C]scpf\f[] in the background as a daemon.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ status\f[]
Attempts to ping \f[C]scpf\f[]\[aq]s Erlang node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ foreground\f[]
Starts \f[B]scpf\f[] in the foreground, suitable for working with
supervisors like systemd.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ version\f[]
Shows the release version string for \f[C]scpf\f[].
This is not a fully reliable way of getting the release version, because
it uses the contents of an installed file,
\f[I]/usr/lib/scpf/releases/start\f[]erl.data_.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ rpcterms\ application\ which_applications\f[]
Displays, in Erlang term format, which applications are running in the
node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ rpcterms\ io\ format\ \[aq]"This\ is\ a\ string~n"\[aq]\f[]
Prints "This is a string" on the console, followed by "ok".
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]scpf\ rpcterms\ io\ format\ \[aq]"Int:\ ~B,\ Atom:\ ~p,\ Str:\ ~s~n"\[aq]\ \[aq][10,foo,"Hi"]\[aq]\f[]
This is an example of giving multiple arguments to \f[C]rpcterms\f[].
It is equivalent to
\f[C]io:format("Int:\ ~B,\ Atom:\ ~p,\ Str:\ ~s~n",\ [10,foo,"Hi"]).\f[]
.RS
.RE
.SH Commands
.PP
The \f[C]scpf\f[] command controls the main server process.
Note that interactions with \f[C]systemd\f[] may cause unexpected
behavior, such as automatically restarting \f[C]scpf\f[] immediately
after \f[C]scpf\ stop\f[] has been called.
.TP
.B \f[C]attach\f[]
Attaches to the \f[C]scpf\f[] process via a pipe.
This will only work if \f[C]scpf\f[] was started in a background mode.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]backup\f[] \f[I]file\f[]
Backs up \f[C]scpf\f[] Mnesia databases in running node to
\f[I]file\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]console\f[]
Starts scpf as a foreground process with access to the Erlang console
messages and shell; outputs "Node is already running!" when node is
already running as a background process.
.RS
.PP
This command is equivalent to \f[C]console_boot\ scpf.boot\f[].
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]console_boot\f[] \f[I]boot\-file\f[]
Starts \f[C]scpf\f[] in console mode, using the Erlang boot file
specified in \f[I]file\f[].
This command drops the caller into an Erlang shell on the system booted
with \f[I]boot\-file\f[].
Exiting the shell shuts down the system.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]console_clean\f[]
Starts a clean Erlang VM in console mode, using the Erlang boot file
\f[C]start_clean.boot\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]erts_vsn\f[]
Displays the version of the Erlang run\-time system (erts) that scpf
will be booted into.
scpf need not be running for this command to work.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]downgrade\f[] \f[I]package\-base\-name\f[]
Synonym for \f[B]install\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]escript\f[] \f[I]file\f[]
Runs escript \f[I]file\f[] in the node\[aq]s environment.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]eval\f[] \f[I]expression\f[]
Evaluates Erlang \f[I]expression\f[] in the running node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]foreground\f[]
Starts up the release in the foreground suitable for runit, systemctl,
and other supervision tools.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]install\f[] \f[I]package\-base\-name\f[]
Runs \f[C]install_upgrade.escript\ install\f[] on
\f[C]_package\-base\-name_\f[] in the running node.
.RS
.PP
Installs, upgrades, or downgrades the scpf release depending on whether
or not the release in the package tarball is absent, newer, or older,
respectively.
The tarball is \f[C]_package\-base\-name_.tar.gz\f[] in the current
directory.
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]pid\f[]
Displays the pid of the running scpf node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]ping\f[]
Pings scpf node as a basic test for node liveness; outputs "pong" on
success or warnings about the node not responding to pings.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]reboot\f[]
Stops and starts scpf node while also exiting the current Erlang virtual
machine; outputs "ok" on success or warnings about node not responding
to pings.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]remote_console\f[]
Starts a remote console on a background scpf node; outputs "Node is not
running!" if unable to reach the node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]restart\f[]
Stops and starts scpf node while maintaining current Erlang virtual
machine; outputs "ok" on success or warnings about node not responding
to pings.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]rpc\f[]
Executes RPC using \f[I]module\f[], \f[I]function\f[], and \f[I]args\f[]
on running node.
This currently only works when args are omitted.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]rpcterms\f[] \f[I]module\f[] \f[I]function\f[] [\f[I]args\f[]]
Executes RPC using \f[I]module\f[], \f[I]function\f[], and \f[I]args\f[]
on running node, and displays the result in Erlang term format.
The optional \f[I]args\f[] parameter is a sequence of one or more
arguments.
Each argument must be a separate command\-line parameter.
The arguments are parsed into Erlang, so eahc argument must be valid
Erlang syntax.
This will probably require escaping \f[I]args\f[] for the shell.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]start\f[]
Starts scpf node as a background process; outputs message "Node is
already running!" when attempting to start an already running node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]status\f[]
Synonym for \f[B]ping\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]start_boot\f[] \f[I]boot\-file\f[]
Starts scpf node as a background process, using \f[I]boot\-file\f[].
Outputs message "Node is already running!" when attempting to start an
already running node.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]stop\f[]
Stops scpf node; outputs "ok" on success or warnings about the node not
responding to pings.
If attached to scpf on the Erlang shell, this example will shut down
scpf in that node:
.RS
.PP
\f[C](scpf\@example.com)1>\ q().\f[]
.PP
If in a remote Erlang shell attached to scpf, this example will
disconnect from the shell without shutting down scpf:
.PP
\f[C](scpf\@example.com)1>\ _CTRL\-g_q_ENTER_\f[]
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]upgrade\f[] \f[I]package\-base\-name\f[]
Synonym for \f[B]install\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]version\f[]
Displays the scpf version string.
scpf need not be running.
.RS
.RE
.SH Authors
.PP
© 2012\-2016 Silent Circle LLC (https://silentcircle.com)
.PP
Edwin Fine (efine\@silentcircle.com)
